(GRACE LAUGHING)
(DOOR OPENS)
(PANTING)
(DOOR CLOSES)
(SNIFFLES)
ANNIE: That shit.
- Hello!
(GIGGLING)
(BOTH LAUGHING)
So, did you ask 'em?
- Yep. They said fine.
- Oh, good! (LAUGHS)
Sure it's okay
with your mom, though, right?
Yeah, she doesn't care. She's working.
Isn't she coming up this weekend?
I don't know.
So come on, how cute is he?
- Spit it out.
-(LAUGHS)
- Oh, he's kind of gorgeous.
- Yeah?
JUDITH: He's sort of like a cousin,
but not really.
He wants to be a forest ranger.
GRACE: Oh, good.
Well, then, after dinner,
we could set a fire in your room
and he can come and rescue us.
(JUDITH GIGGLES)
You should've seen
the look on her face.
I would've laughed so hard,
I swear to God. (CHUCKLES)
I can't believe you're gonna miss it.
Hi, Gulliver. How you doin', boy?
(NEIGHING SOFTLY)
Hey, Pilgrim.
- Come here.
-(NEIGHS)
(SNORTING)
Hey, babe. You're such a beautiful boy.
What are you thinkin', huh?
What're you thinkin', boy?
You wanna go for a ride?
Let's go for a ride. Come on.
Come on, boy, come on.
(LIFTS PHONE)
(DIALING)
(PHONE RINGING)
- Hello?
- It's me.
- Hi.
So, what train are you taking?
Um...
- I should be in by 2:00.
- Okay.
You want me to pick you up?
No, I can take a cab. Grace go riding?
Mmm-hmm.
What do you wanna do about dinner?
- Hadn't thought.
-(PHONES RINGING)
- Might be nice to try that place...
- Hang on.
...Emily's, over in Pound Ridge.
They're here, so, you know.
- I'll let you go.
-(PHONES RINGING)
We'll figure it out
when you get here, okay?
Yeah, okay. Okay, then. Bye.
-(BUTTON CLICKS)
- Hello?
(GIRLS GIGGLING)
GRACE: Please. Oh, God, please.
(INDISTINCT CHATTER)
Where are the paintings?
It's about her work
-and we can't even see it.
- But we're trying to...
- We can change the color of the deck.
-(PHONE RINGING)
And we could move it up...
But we need to see the paintings.
She's an artist.
- Have you checked on her going rate?
-(WHISPERS) Gottschalk.
WOMAN: Yes, the Legal Department's
on that right now.
David.
GOTTSCHALK ON PHONE:
Did you speak to Felton?
Yes, we're suing.
Well, is that absolutely necessary?
It'll just make it a bigger story.
Am I on the speaker?
David, he signed an agreement
that he wouldn't talk to the press,
and now he's libeled me
by saying I faked the figures.
You're not going soft on me, are you?
Well, nothing like a good public feud.
Exactly.
(GIRLS LAUGHING)
JUDITH: You know that kid, Adam?
- GRACE: (CHUCKLES) Yeah?
- Uh-huh!
Very cute.
I think you'd make a good couple
with him, Grace.
GRACE: I don't think so.
JUDITH: I do.
- I think he's cute.
- Ew! Are you serious?
- I think he's icky.
JUDITH: What about that kid
that lives next door to you?
- That kid?
- What's his name?
(CHUCKLING) I think you have
a crush on him.
(BOTH LAUGHING)
All right, let's take a shortcut.
Let's take a shortcut.
ANNIE: No. We can't even read it.
- Friday is confirmed.
- Right, okay, Lucy, thank you.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
We have to reshoot this.
-(SINGING) I said it, I said it, I said it...
- I said that...
It's "that." It's "that."
I swear to God, it's "that"!
-"It, it, it, it!"
-"That's, that's." "That."
- All right, fine, let's start again. Ready?
- All right, fine.
BOTH: (SINGING) I met him at a party
And he told me how to drive
He said he liked to do it backwards
I said it, it
- Come on.
- Judith.
I said it, it, it
(LAUGHING)
- Come on.
-(NEIGHING)
- Gulliver! Gulliver, up! Up, Gulliver!
- Judith.
- Whoa!
- Judith!
- Hey! No.
- No, no!
- Grace, look out!
-(NEIGHING)
- Grace!
- Pilgrim!
- Judith, Judith!
- Grace!
(NEIGHING)
(GROANS)
Hello!
(LAUGHING)
(SNORTING)
(NEIGHING)
(GROANING)
No.
(SNORTING)
Gulliver!
- Stop! Gulliver!
-(NEIGHING)
Gulliver!
Come on.
(HORN HONKING)
(NEIGHING)
(BRAKES SCREECHING)
(INAUDIBLE)
(PHONE RINGING)
(WOMAN ANNOUNCING ON PA)
What?
Judith's dead.
And what about Grace?
She's in pretty bad shape.
DOCTOR: It's a multiple trauma.
- Where is she?
- She's still in the OR.
OR? What for?
DOCTOR: It's a mid-shaft tib-fib
fracture with a vascular compromise,
meaning the blood supply
to the lower leg...
I think
they have to take part of the leg off.
(BREATHES SHAKILY)
Which leg?
- DOCTOR: The right leg.
-(GASPS)
(WATER RUNNING)
(BIRD SQUAWKING)
(NEIGHING SOFTLY)
Oh, Jesus.
(SNORTING)
(GRUNTING)
Just take it easy.
This is gonna be tough on both of us.
So, let's not make it any harder
than it has to be.
(NEIGHING)
(PANTING)
(MACHINE BEEPING)
(AIR HISSING)
Judith?
(WATER RUNNING)
That bag's almost empty.
They'll be in to change it.
You leave it up to these people...
Excuse me,
my daughter needs a new I.V.
NURSE: Yes, I know.
We have her down.
Well, I'd like it taken care of now,
please.
You have to
stay on top of these people constantly.
I'm sorry.
- Thank you.
NURSE: We really should
let her get some rest.
And I do have to change the bandage.
You can come back in a couple of hours
and see how she's doing.
NURSE 2: Mrs. MacLean?
Mrs. MacLean, you have a call
on line two. You can take it right there.
- Hello?
- Annie, it's Liz. How's Grace?
(SIGHING)
Her leg was very damaged,
and they had to remove it.
Oh, God, Annie. I'm so sorry.
Listen, I know
that you're being hit with a lot now,
and it's hard to think
about anything else,
but I have to talk to you about Pilgrim.
Hello?
Yeah, I'm here.
I've never seen an animal
with these injuries still breathing.
I'd like your permission
to put him down.
It's really the best thing
we could do for him.
- Uh, you mean shoot him?
- Yeah, Annie.
Well,
(INAUDIBLE)
look, Liz, the doctor's here right now,
and I can't make this decision
on my own.
Annie, I understand that,
but I have to do what...
Just do what you can, okay?
Annie, no matter what I do,
this horse will never be the same.
(STAMMERS)
Well, look, I just don't know.
It's Grace's horse. So, when she's...
- It's not right to make him suffer.
- I cannot deal with this now, Liz.
If you need a yes or a no,
then don't do it.
Okay?
Just do what you can for him, okay?
Right.
MAN: Animal should be put down.
Anybody can see that.
What did he say?
Nothing. He's just going off-duty.
Well, that's important information, huh?
Christ. (SNIFFLING) Doctors, huh?
(SIGHS)
I'm gonna get to know
all the nurses' names.
It's good to know their names.
(SOBBING)
- I'll go get some of her things.
- I'll go.
No, I'll go. You stay
in case she wakes up.
(HOOVES BANGING)
(MUFFLED NEIGHING)
(SNORTING)
(NEIGHS WEAKLY)
You guys go on ahead.
I'll be up by Christmas.
ROBERT: I meant to tell you,
I got those tickets for the Knicks game.
ANNIE: Good.
- ROBERT: Wanna come, Annie?
- No.
Why don't you go with a friend, Grace?
Yeah.
You wanna eat something else, honey?
We can order out something else.
No, I'm just not that hungry, that's all.
Well, you should try to eat anyway.
- It's the only way you're gonna get...
- I said I wasn't hungry.
You wanna watch some television?
- I think she should finish first.
- Maybe. I just...
(CUTLERY CLATTERS)
I can't.
- Here.
- I'm sorry.
(THUDDING)
- No, Dad, I got it! Got it.
- Oh, let me...
I'm sorry.
You've gotta stop doing that.
What?
Helping her all the time.
Running to her every time she trips.
Anticipating her.
You know, Annie,
this didn't just happen to you.
(BELL RINGING)
(INDISTINCT CHATTER)
GIRL: Hi, Grace.
(LAUGHTER)
I don't care what he told you,
the man's a liar.
He's an actor, for God's sake.
Do anything to get a cover.
(PHONE RINGS)
Gracie, what happened?
(TEARFULLY) It doesn't matter.
I don't wanna come back, that's all.
Well, what're you gonna do?
You have to go to school, sweetheart.
I said no! (SNIFFLING)
I don't wanna come back.
That's it. I wanna go home.
Grace, listen to me. Hmm?
Your leg is just healing,
and you have to give the rest of you
time as well.
Is that your version of a pep talk?
Well, you're not staying home all day
feeling sorry for yourself.
You're gonna get up,
and you're gonna figure this out.
Fine.
It's still early. What's your next class?
Gym.
(MUSIC PLAYS FAINTLY) Attitude
(MUSIC BLARING)
It don't mean a thing without an attitude
No, no, no, no, attitude
(MUSIC STOPS)
MAN ON TV: ...be an excellent job.
Head and hands and eyes perfect.
Pilgrim moves
with an absolute confidence
under the command of his...
(SNIFFLING)
(DOOR OPENS)
(CRUTCHES THUDDING)
What is it, sweetheart?
I want to see Pilgrim.
- Hello!
- Hi.
Hi.
It's so good to see you. How you doin'?
She's doing just great.
Aren't you, kiddo?
- I'm fine.
- Watch your step, hon.
Mind how you go.
It's muddy back there.
- Back there?
-(NEIGHING)
(STAMMERS)
Well, what do you mean?
Why isn't he in the barn
with the other horses?
(HOOVES THUDDING)
(NEIGHING)
Well, Grace, you see,
Pilgrim just isn't the same horse
that he used to be.
As a matter of fact, maybe now is not
the best time for you to see him.
I really wanna see him.
-(NEIGHING)
-(HOOVES THUDDING)
Can you open it, please?
Hey.
- Hello, beautiful boy.
-(WHINNYING)
(GASPING)
(NEIGHING)
-(THUDDING)
-(WHIMPERING)
GRACE: No. Oh, God.
- No, please.
- Grace.
No. No.
No. Leave me alone!
Here. Grace. Grace?
LIZ: Mr. MacLean, I'm so sorry.
(SNORTING)
GRACE: Dad, why didn't you tell me?
ROBERT: I'm so sorry.
(HOOVES THUDDING)
(GRACE SOBBING)
You should've told her, Annie.
This animal is beyond help.
Annie, can I have your permission now
to put him down?
No.
(PHONE RINGING)
And get me every publication
on riding, racing, breeding.
Everything.
Medical publications as well.
- Yeah. Yeah. Hold on.
- Veterinarian journals.
And tell them it's me and I want it now.
Hold on. Hold on. Gottschalk.
I'll call him back.
He says he's on his way to the airport,
and he really needs to speak.
Lucy, I'll call him back. I'll call him back.
Just get me what I want.
(TAPPING ON KEYBOARD)
(CLICKING)
ANNIE: "A million years before man,
they grazed the vast empty plains,
"living by voices only they could hear.
"They first came to know man
as the hunted knows the hunter,
"for long before he used horses
for his labors,
"he killed them for meat.
"The alliance with man
would forever be fragile,
"for the fear he'd struck
into their hearts
"was too deep to be dislodged.
"Since that Neolithic moment,
when a horse was first haltered,
"there were those among men
"who understood this.
"They could see
into the creature's soul
"and soothe the wounds
they found there.
"The secrets uttered softly
into troubled ears.
"These men were known
as the Whisperers. "
It's perfectly shot, perfectly cropped,
perfectly laid out,
and I am so bloody bored. Start again.
Thank you.
Would you excuse me for a moment?
Hello?
Yeah, this is Tom Booker.
I got a message you called.
Hello, Mr. Booker.
It's Annie MacLean from Cover.
You know, the magazine.
Um... Well, thank you
for returning my call.
Is there something I can do for you,
ma'am?
Yes, yes.
I read this article about what you do
for people with horse problems.
Well, truth is,
I help horses with people problems.
(CHUCKLES) Well, whichever way
you want to put it.
This article said
that you were a horse whisperer.
(CHUCKLES) Oh, yeah. They said that,
huh? A whisperer? Hmm.
And I was hoping
that you'd come to New York,
and take a look at my daughter's horse
and possibly do something for it.
(LAUGHING) Ma'am, I'm sorry,
I'm afraid you misunderstood
whatever it is you read,
because that's not exactly what I do.
I mostly conduct clinics, you see...
Well, could you come to New York
just for the day?
- It's only a few hours by plane.
- And I'm not doing them now.
- I'm on my way to Montana...
- I could have you home by dinner.
...where I have a ranch to take care of.
Well, I'd pay your fare, of course.
First class.
Ma'am, first class to Montana
is a waste of good money.
If you could just give me a time
when you'd be available.
Am I being too polite here
when I say no in Nevada?
Does that mean yes where you are?
Look, I'm really sorry for your situation,
but there's nothing I can do.
You just called the wrong person is all.
I'm sure there's some fine horse doctors
back East.
No, but I don't want a horse doctor.
I want you.
So, I hope everything goes okay
with you and your horse. All right?
- Well, but, you see, it's not my horse.
- So, goodbye now.
(DIAL TONE)
ANNIE: Grace?
Grace, it's Mom.
Grace?
Are you all right?
I've decided about Pilgrim.
Oh.
I think we should put him down.
It's not fair to let him suffer.
- Well, I think that's a very...
- Maybe they should put me down, too.
What?
I'm not much use anymore.
(INHALES SHARPLY)
(BEEPING)
You're getting a fax.
(BREATHES DEEPLY)
(DOOR CLOSES)
- You're up late.
- Is it?
- How was the dinner?
- Is Grace asleep?
- Yeah, I think so.
- Nothing we haven't heard before.
Just louder this time, that's all.
So, why'd you go?
Well, one of us had to.
They're still our friends, Annie.
(SIGHS) Listen, I had a thought.
What do you think we go
someplace warm, the three of us?
Bermuda or the Bahamas or... What?
Nothing.
No, I just don't know if Bermuda
would be such a good idea.
Grace would have to wear
summer dresses or shorts.
Oh, yeah. Of course, of course.
What is it?
I wanna take Pilgrim out
to see this horse guy.
Drive him out to Montana.
-(CHUCKLES)
- No, I'm serious.
Now, wait a minute.
I thought you said you didn't like
the way he sounded on the phone.
No, I didn't.
I want to take Grace with me.
You're kidding.
Liz'll find me a trailer.
We can stay at motels along the way.
What,
you made arrangements already?
No, I just checked out a few things.
Now, wait a minute.
Drive a crazed horse all the way
to Montana with our daughter?
He's not crazed, Robert.
Don't exaggerate.
No, I can't just pack up and leave.
Well, I'm not asking you to. I'll do it.
By yourself? How? You can't
take care of Pilgrim all the way.
He'll be sedated.
I do know a thing or two about horses.
- What about the magazine?
- I'm in charge.
I can oversee things from Montana.
- I can take my fax, my computer.
- Oh, you're in charge.
What about Grace?
The doctor says she needs stability.
I can't say he's being all that effective
with her.
Are you a psychiatrist?
He says it takes time.
Well, I don't care what he says!
I cannot sit here and pretend
everything's gonna be all right.
- I am not pretending.
- We have to do something.
I am trusting in people who know more
about this than we do.
We are losing her!
I don't care what the doctors say.
They don't know her.
I don't care
if this doesn't sound rational.
Nobody is suggesting anything better!
I can't explain it, Robert.
I just have this feeling.
I just know it's the right thing.
Why, Annie?
I just know it.
Does this cowboy vet know
that you're coming?
Yeah.
What if Grace doesn't wanna go?
She will if you think she should.
And you think it's best if I don't come?
- No, that's not what I said.
- GRACE: Daddy?
I don't wanna go.
Come on, straight back. Come on.
- Get it closer. Little more.
-(NEIGHING)
MAN 1: Watch it. Get behind him.
(NEIGHING)
- Hold it!
- Get back.
(SNORTING)
MAN 1: Watch it!
MAN 2: Here he goes, Eddie!
- Why don't you get inside and just...
- MAN 2: Get out of the way!
MAN 1: Lady,
we're doin' the best we can.
MAN 2: It's the only way
to load this kind of horse.
-(GROANS)
-(SNORTING)
(NEIGHING)
Maybe we should give him
another sedative.
- We did.
-(WHINING)
Get the gate! Get the gate!
Get out of here! Hold that door.
MAN: Hey!
(GRUNTING)
(HOOVES THUDDING)
- You got a gun, just in case?
-(THUDDING)
Course not.
That's probably best.
You may wanna shoot yourself
halfway to Ohio.
Half of the staff of their brain
is on vacation
Mama, are you listening?
We need a new breed
Leaders, stand up, organize
Don't let your children watch television
until they know how to read
(WHOOSHING)
-(NEIGHS)
-(HORN BLARING)
(NEIGHS)
ANNIE: Grace, are you hungry?
Do you wanna stop for lunch?
GRACE: I don't care.
ANNIE: I wanna find a place
before it gets dark. What do you think?
Grace?
GRACE: Doesn't matter.
ANNIE: Okay, let's see.
Look, this is what I'll do.
I'll get to the next motel,
see if they have a fax.
- And then...
-(THUDDING)
Oh, wait. Hang on.
I gotta go. Later.
(THUDDING)
(MUSIC PLAYS FAINTLY
ON HEADPHONES)
Grace, do you wanna put your music on
up here?
(DISTANTLY) Grace?
Do you wanna put your music on
up here?
(MUSIC CONTINUES)
RADIO ANNOUNCER: ... when you
purchase your Eureka World Deluxe...
(SWITCHING CHANNELS)
...here in the agricultural
markets and farm,
news headlines continue to...
...insecticide for small grains.
Important, always read and follow
label instructions.
...a man was rejuvenated
in the grace of the Lord.
He was washed.
Mmm, Grace, look at this.
Do you wanna see that?
I don't care.
(MIMICKING) "I don't care."
It'll be fun.
We haven't seen any of the sights yet.
It's history.
When I was 13,
I used to love doing things like this.
Oh, you were never 13, Mom.
(SIGHS)
Oh...
- Great idea, Mom. Now what?
-(ENGINE STOPS)
(SIGHS)
- How long is this gonna go on?
- What?
You know what I mean.
Do you want us to go back home?
Is that what you want?
Well, what're you asking me for?
You didn't ask me if I wanted to come
in the first place.
Now I get to decide? Sorry.
Do you know who I'm doing this for?
I'm doing this for you.
Bullshit! It's all about you,
about you deciding,
about you being right!
- It's like we work for you or something!
- I don't believe this!
- How come Daddy didn't come, huh?
- What do you mean?
You know everything. You figure it out.
- Your father had to work.
-(SCOFFS) Yeah, right.
Would you please stop acting like
you know what you're talking about?
You are amazing, you know?
I mean, you act like I don't even live
in that house anymore.
What, you think
I don't know what's going on?
- You think I'm still five years old?
- When you act like this, you are!
- How long are we gonna be away, huh?
- I don't know.
Yeah? Well, what if this guy
can't do anything, huh?
I don't know!
I don't have all the answers.
No, you just act like you do.
(RATTLING)
(WEEPING)
(SOBBING)
(FLASHLIGHT CLICKS)
You okay, ma'am?
Yeah, I'm fine.
MAN: The young lady's
gettin' a little worried.
ANNIE: Oh, sorry. Sorry.
- Good night, ma'am.
- Night.
- You buckled up?
- Mmm-hmm.
- Are you cold?
- A little.
(ENGINE STARTS)
RADIO ANNOUNCER: You may have
seen the Kennel Club champion
being rewarded
with a box of chocolates the other day.
Veterinarians and Humane Society...
WOMAN: (SINGING)
Can't get you out of my mind...
WOMAN ON RADIO:
Winter weather got you down?
Wilson Travel is offering
charter packages
to sunny Orlando, Florida.
MAN ON RADIO:
Well, looks like lots of precipitation,
as we mentioned, overnight.
Rain fall of an inch and a half Plus,
it looks like about another half inch.
RADIO ANNOUNCER:
He had an epiphany.
Paul had been transformed
by the grace of God.
So he was a new creation in Christ.
His inner man was completely...
GRACE: Gee, this place looks like fun.
Don't they believe in signs
around here?
What would they say?
"10 miles to Big Rock,
-"20 Miles to Bigger Rock"?
- No.
Great trip, Mom.
I'm having so much fun.
I think I should turn here.
GRACE: Oh, yeah, those rocks
over there, much more interesting.
(PANTING)
(SIGHS)
JOE: Can we take a look at Bronty's foal
when we're done here, Dad?
Sure, as long as she don't mind.
There's this kid at school,
says we should've imprint-trained him.
Says if you do it
as soon as they're born,
makes 'em real easy to handle later on.
That's what some folks say.
JOE: There's this thing on the TV
about a guy who does it with geese.
He has this airplane,
and these baby geese all grew up
thinking it's their mom.
And he flies it and they just follow.
You hear about that, Uncle T?
Yeah, heard about it.
Well, what do you think
about all that stuff?
Well, I tell you, Joey,
might be all right for geese to grow up
thinkin' they're airplanes,
but horses, far as I can tell, can't fly.
We expecting company?
- You know who it is?
- Nope.
Mr. Booker?
- Yeah?
Tom Booker?
Annie MacLean from New York.
We talked on the phone.
I had a little bit of a hard time
finding the place. There are no signs.
There're plenty of signs,
just not many of them printed.
Why do I get the impression
that you're just not drivin' through?
I want you to take a look at my horse.
Now, it won't take long.
And if you still feel the same way,
then I'm sure I can find...
You thinkin' about personally
driving me back East?
(CHUCKLING) Oh, no, no, no.
No, I brought him along
and my daughter, too.
We're at the Lazy J Motel.
You hauled him all the way out here?
Well, yeah. I had a trailer.
It's not like I made him run
alongside the car.
- By yourself?
- Mmm-hmm.
Well, ma'am, I appreciate the pains
that you've obviously gone through...
Look, please don't do
the "Shucks, ma'am" thing again.
I have just driven a few thousand miles
for a few minutes of your time.
I have brought him all the way out here.
Just take a look at him.
If you still feel the same way,
I will be on the road by morning
and you'll never hear from me again,
okay?
Deal?
We're at the Lazy J Motel.
Whenever you're free.
You don't have to call.
(LAUGHS) Jesus.
(ENGINE STARTS)
-(KNOCKING ON DOOR)
-(ANNIE TALKING INDISTINCTLY)
Mom, the door.
(WOMAN TALKING ON PHONE)
ANNIE: No services.
There's one doctor in town.
I managed to find a therapist for Grace.
I had to drive, like, two hours for that.
Mmm-hmm. Mmm-hmm.
Did they make the color corrections?
- Are they still okay with the delay?
- Yeah.
Uh, I'm Tom Booker.
Is your mother around?
She's on the phone. She'll be right out.
Mom, there's a cowboy here.
(TV PLAYING)
ANNIE: This is not
Gottschalk's business.
Why is he interfering with this?
I told him I'd take care of it.
No, I told him I'd take care of it,
and I will take care of it.
I just have to get myself settled here.
Well,
put it in the memo and I'll sign it.
- This your first time in Montana?
- ANNIE: Oh, no, really?
It's completely ridiculous.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
I can imagine. I can imagine.
- They are?
- Then why did you go to meet him
alone, secretly, all dressed up?
ANNIE: That's funny. No. Really?
- I can believe that.
- She gonna be long?
Probably.
She's on the phone 23 hours a day.
What does she do?
- She's an editor.
- Editor?
Ah, ah!
Just in case she hasn't told you,
which she probably hasn't,
I don't wanna be a part of this. Okay?
- ANNIE: Thank you.
-(REPLACES RECEIVER)
Hi. Sorry about that.
Grace, this is Mr. Booker.
Did you look at Pilgrim yet?
I was gonna take that look now.
Would you like me to come with you?
I have to run over to the office
-and give Mr. Petersen a check.
- Doesn't matter.
Grace, do you wanna come with us?
Take a look at Pilgrim?
- Probably best she stay behind anyway.
- ANNIE: Okay.
- Howdy, Lester.
- Howdy.
Goin' to see that horse?
Yeah, thought I might.
Well, I hope you got insurance.
That dirty son of a bitch.
(NEIGHING)
-(SNORTING)
- Hyah! Hyah!
(NEIGHING)
(GRUNTING SOFTLY)
(HOOVES CLOMPING)
(GRUNTING)
(GRUNTS)
(PANTING)
Shh, shh.
Well, you're the closest
anyone's ever gotten.
I have to be honest with you.
I still feel you've made a long trip
for nothing.
But before I even think about it,
I need to know something right now.
And it's a question for Grace.
You see, when I work with a horse,
it's no good just me doin' it.
The owner's gotta be involved, too.
Well, that'll be a little complicated.
You can make it as complicated
or as easy as you like.
But she's the one
that's gonna be ridin' him. Am I right?
Hey?
Right?
Now, here's the deal.
I don't know that I can do anything.
But I'm prepared to give it a go
if you'll help.
(CHUCKLES)
- You have a problem with that?
- Isn't it, like, obvious?
Not to me.
Either you want to or you don't.
- Look, I'll talk to Grace.
- Excuse me. With all due respect,
this is her decision, not yours.
Now, I don't wanna waste
anybody's time here. Mostly mine.
Well, nothin' else to do around here.
That's not good enough.
I can't help you.
What do I have to do?
I said, "What do I have to do?"
DIANE: Well, what does she want?
She wants you
to take care of her horse?
Somethin' like that.
And they're staying in the motel?
The Lazy J.
Could I have some butter, please?
Not exactly a tourist stop.
Well, what about the girl?
Doesn't she go to school?
I don't know.
You know, I just think
she's got a lot of nerve showin' up here,
draggin' that, you know, poor animal
and that child all the way.
Honey, don't eat with your fingers.
Frank, don't you think
she's got a lot of nerve?
Well, hell, I don't know.
Accordin' to Tom,
she's a pretty determined woman.
Must've thought it was worth it.
(SIGHS) Yeah, well,
I guess they'll want feedin',
being out here all day long.
I don't think they'll expect that.
What, they're gonna drive
40 miles into town
every time they want a hamburger?
- Mixed salad.
- What?
Well, I believe women from New York
eat mixed salads.
- Ain't that right, Tom?
- I believe so.
Well, that's just what we need,
a vegetarian from New York
on our cattle ranch.
WOMAN ON TAPE: A great traveler,
in distinction to a merely good one,
is the kind that's introspective.
As she covers the ground outwardly,
so she advances toward fresh
interpretations of herself inwardly.
And this is the quality
which lends Freya Stark's books
the memorable poetic density
which is their special cachet.
Moreover, it is this quality
which makes them as fresh in...
(CLASSICAL MUSIC PLAYING)
(CLEARS THROAT)
(WHINNYING)
(NEIGHING)
(SNORTING)
You at a good place to quit?
Oh, I got him moving out a bit.
That's about it.
Still a long ways away
from getting a leg over him.
(NEIGHING)
All right, we're moving along.
What's he doing?
Is this some kind of physical therapy?
(CELL PHONE RINGING)
(NEIGHING)
ANNIE: Hello?
No, you're breaking up.
(NEIGHING)
Hold on, hold on.
Let's not start a fight with him.
Hey, Joey, gimme the rope.
If he gets to pulling back,
we'll never get him out of there.
Let me go in after him.
(NEIGHING)
Hey, hey, hey!
(WHINNYING)
Mr. Booker, I'm really
not comfortable with you
taking these kind of risks.
(GRUNTING)
Oh, God!
JOE: Hey, hey! Pilgrim!
TOM: Let him go!
Let him go.
JOE: Does that hurt you?
Only when I kick somebody.
Don't you go to school?
Taking a break.
Don't you?
School term's out early for us,
so we can work the ranch.
Look at him out in the pasture.
He must've been a big,
beautiful looking horse.
How was he to ride?
Excuse me.
I've got chores to look after.
(ANNIE CLEARS THROAT)
Are we in the way?
Should we leave?
I guess we'll go, then.
(WHINNYING)
From now on,
leave your phone somewhere else.
Ms. MacLean?
Would you and your daughter
like to stay for dinner?
Joe, take off your hat at the table.
I don't wanna say it again.
Dear Lord,
we are humbly thankful for these gifts,
for the blessings on our home,
our family and our guests.
And bless those that aren't as fortunate.
Bless all God's creatures.
- Amen.
- ALL: Amen.
Amen.
You want some roast beef?
It looks great. Thanks.
Thank you.
- Want some milk?
- Yeah, thanks.
Old Hank got us a couple of more men
to move the cattle.
And what kind of cattle do you raise,
Mr. Booker?
Well, we run a mixed herd,
but mostly Black Baldies.
Now, what're those?
Black Angus Herefords
instead of Straight Herefords.
- Oh, Black Angus. Of course.
- JOE: There you go.
And what's the difference?
They suit the weather better.
And their udders are black
instead of pink.
They don't get burned
with the sun bouncing off the snow.
They make good mothers.
Our daddy raised Straight Herefords.
You know, that's interesting.
I've always wondered every time,
you know, when I go into a restaurant,
what's the difference
between a regular steak
and Black Angus steak?
I can never taste the difference,
but I could swear that one
was more tender than the other.
I didn't know there was
that much difference between the cows.
Of course I'd never been
on a cow farm before.
It seems to me that the bulls have
the best of the time,
just laying around the fields, waiting for
somebody to come along and ask them
to do their work. (CHUCKLES)
You get born a bull,
you got a 90% chance
of getting castrated,
served up as hamburger.
So, on balance,
I reckon I'd choose being a cow.
(ALL LAUGHING)
Yeah.
Hey, young man.
DIANE: You get back up to bed!
-(FOOTSTEPS THUDDING)
-(BOY LAUGHING)
So, how's the Lazy J
holding up for you?
Oh, it's fine.
I still can't get used to
how dark it gets around here, though.
Every time I leave the ranch,
I hold my breath
until I can see the motel.
- Well, by golly, that's a lot of drive time.
- Mmm-hmm.
You know, Tom, while you're working
on that horse of theirs,
Annie and Grace should move
into the Old Creek house.
Nobody's using it.
It's silly for her to be
driving back and forth
when she... She don't know
her way around that well.
That's very kind of you,
but, really, we're fine where we are.
Oh, hell, look, I know the Lazy J.
Old place is as good
as falling down around your ears.
Frank, they're already all settled in.
And anyway, I'm sure
they want their privacy.
Well, it's got doors, Diane.
And private as can be.
Tom?
I don't have a problem with it.
I think it's up to Annie.
Well, it'd be great
for when my dad comes to visit.
Where is your dad, honey?
He's at home, working.
You know, I don't know...
Is it worth it, really?
I mean, how long do you think
you'll carry on working with Pilgrim?
That depends on Pilgrim.
I know. Me, too.
When are you coming to visit?
Yeah, well, there'll be plenty of room
'cause we're moving down to the ranch.
Yeah, yeah, they've got this really
cute little house down by the creek.
It's really pretty.
Okay. Okay.
I love you, too.
Hold on.
Dad wants to talk to you.
Hi.
ROBERT: Well, she sounds like
she's doing all right. How is she?
Yeah.
You know, I think she seems to be
getting more comfortable on the ranch,
which is the only reason
I said yes to this move.
Well, that makes sense.
So, how are you doing out there
in Marlboro Country?
(SCOFFS)
Is the magazine complaining at all?
Yeah, but nothing I can't handle.
Lucy says she thinks Gottschalk's
plotting, but what else is new?
So, when are you coming home?
You know,
I asked him that myself tonight
and he doesn't know.
Hmm.
I miss you, Annie.
Yeah, I know. We miss you, too.
Good night.
Night.
Did you ask him to come visit?
You already did.
Do you want me to help you pack?
Hi.
Howdy.
- What's he doing?
- He's trying to get him to hook on.
How's it going?
(SNORTING)
(NEIGHING)
(PILGRIM PANTING)
(MOOING)
(WHISTLES)
(URGING CATTLE)
(BELLOWING)
(INDISTINCT)
(MOOING)
(BELLOWING)
Hey, you over there!
Wanna make yourself useful?
- Hey, Hank.
- Yeah?
I think you got a volunteer here.
You wanna take care of her?
Where's Grace? Grace?
(MOOING)
(INAUDIBLE)
Ah!
(LAUGHING)
-(MEN SHOUTING)
-(MOOING)
- You okay?
- Yeah.
Cocktail hour yet?
- What?
- I said, "Is it cocktail hour yet?"
Come here a second.
You handled that pretty well.
I think it's time you started
earning your keep around here.
So, when we're not working,
you're not doing your therapy,
I'd like you to help out with the horses.
You know, rubbing 'em,
cleaning the stalls.
Think you can handle that?
That's not a question, is it?
Nope.
Okay.
(LAUGHING)
(GUITAR PLAYING)
HANK: (SINGING) I was out walkin'
one mornin' for pleasure
Spied a cow puncher
come a-lopin' along
BOY: Let's go!
Here we go!
Throw! That's it.
(LAUGHING)
(GROANS)
BOY: Mom, can we go in the river?
DIANE: Hey, little ones! How are you?
He was up on 118,
flat on his old pickup...
DIANE: No, you can't go
swimming in the river.
You know you're not allowed
to go swimming in the river.
And Marie, here, made the best pie.
MAN: Gets it all jacked up.
DIANE: Cherry pie. Go get some.
But as luck'd have it,
he didn't have all the lug nuts off,
but the jack slipped and fell
right on that rock he calls a head.
-(LAUGHING)
- Is he okay?
ELLEN: He is a blacksmith by trade,
my father.
Well, he rearranged his scalp about
12 inches, but he'll be all right.
But always dreamed of having a place
where he could raise horses.
Have a whole separate life.
My grandson, Joe, is named for him.
Somebody told him about a place
called Stockett.
He got on his horse
and he rode over there,
and he got off and he walked
as far as he could one way,
and then he turned around.
Then he walked as far as he could
to the other.
And then he decided that
that's where he was going to settle.
And that's where we raised
Frank and Tommy.
Where do you call home?
She's from New York, Mom.
Uh...
Well, I was born in London.
But I'm from all over, really.
My father was a diplomat,
and so we moved constantly.
My, that sounds very important.
No.
He was a wonderful man.
He died when I was 12.
But we lived all over the world.
It's not the same
as knowing a place like this.
No?
Sometimes people carry it
more on the inside
than the outside.
(INDISTINCT CHATTER)
HANK: (SINGING) If it hadn't have
been for them troublesome doggies
(CROCKERY CLANKING)
WOMAN 1: I suppose I could gather up
some of these cups and plates.
- You guys done with these?
- WOMAN 2: Yeah.
WOMAN 3:
You better give me that recipe.
- That is really...
- WOMAN 1: I know. I know.
ANNIE: This family has quite a history.
DIANE: Yeah.
It's a story, all right.
ANNIE: I love how
she calls him Tommy.
Yeah, always did.
Think she always favored him.
(CHUCKLES) She loves
telling this story about,
when he was two years old, he ran off.
And they found him sleeping in the barn
between two giant hooves
of a Percheron stallion.
He said that horse was protecting him,
and nobody
could convince him otherwise.
(LAUGHTER)
Why do you always wear that hat?
'Cause it fits my head.
- Wanna try it on?
- BOY: Come on.
TOM: What do you want me to do?
What do you want me to do, huh?
- Wait. What do you call that?
- What?
Okay, one more time.
Wait now, get on...
You gonna sit on me? Here.
So you can watch this.
'Cause I don't wanna do this
too many times, okay?
- Put your finger up. Okay?
-(BOY GIGGLES)
Okay?
The loop's knotted, right?
Looks like the only way to get it off
is to break the touch, right?
Now, watch. You watching?
Watch careful.
(CHUCKLES)
- Again! Again!
- Come on.
- One more time!
Oh, no. I don't fall for that one twice.
Now, you guys get on in
before your mother finds you.
(BOYS LAUGHING)
Here.
Oh. Thank you.
(CHUCKLES)
What?
Do you ever sit still for just a minute?
Well, you sit still too long in New York
and you get renovated.
Why is it, Mr. Booker,
that sometimes I get the feeling
that you're laughing at me?
I don't know. Why?
No.
You're supposed to say
you're not laughing at me.
I see, you take care
of both sides of the conversation,
do you?
It's a man's world, Mr. Booker.
Most women have to.
You can call me Tom.
Maybe I am laughing a little bit.
I figure, since you're here, it might be
nice to relax into the place a bit.
Mmm.
Yeah.
Well, it's beautiful country.
And I could see having some kind of a,
you know, vacation place, retreat.
But I don't know how you do it full time.
Don't you miss the rest of the world?
What's there to miss?
Well, if you've never lived in the city
with museums and theater
and restaurants and music...
Well, I can't explain.
Well, does Chicago count?
You lived in Chicago?
That's where I met my wife.
You were married
to a woman in Chicago?
Yeah, really. A woman.
No, I'm sorry. I didn't, I didn't...
No, I'm... (LAUGHS)
I was studying engineering,
and she was studying music.
The cello.
And I once heard her play
a Dvok concerto,
and I thought it was the most beautiful
piece of music I'd ever heard in my life.
Huh!
So, just who's laughing at who here?
A jogger, huh?
I don't jog, Mr. Booker. I run.
Well, that's lucky for you.
The grizzlies around here
mostly go for joggers.
You sleeping okay in that house?
Well, I don't sleep well anywhere,
but the house is fine.
-(SNORTS)
-(EXCLAIMS)
I have a way with animals.
That's all right. He's just young.
Here, hold out your hand
just a little lower. That's it.
So he can get the smell of you.
He's beautiful.
Now, how come
you don't ride anymore?
Hmm?
Grace told me you used to ride
when she was younger.
She did?
Yep.
Uh...
I don't know.
No time, I guess.
(SHIVERS)
Thought it was supposed to be spring.
Enjoy the day.
You too.
(PILGRIM SNORTING)
(HORSES NEIGHING)
(HOOVES THUDDING)
(CLATTERING)
Come take a ride with me.
TOM: Can you drive?
(CHUCKLES) Drive?
I'm not old enough.
Yeah. Well, it's never too soon to start.
Here.
Get in.
Uh...
(STAMMERS) I can't.
Come on. I don't have all day.
Put the key in, turn it on.
- This one?
- Mmm-hmm.
(ENGINE STARTS)
Now, right pedal's the gas,
the other one's the brake.
Uh...
I don't think I can, with my leg.
Well, there's only one way to find out.
Now, put it in "D."
And give it some gas.
(REVVING)
(CHUCKLES)
Okay, now we know you can.
Now, you just gotta feel how much.
Now... Try it again.
(REVVING GENTLY)
There you go.
Nice.
Real nice. Now, there's a little road
up at the end here.
Turn onto it.
Now just follow this. Nothing to it.
I'm gonna kind of close my eyes here
for a little while,
so keep going till you run out of road.
(STAMMERS) Uh, I don't think I can.
It's not a question if you can. You are.
TOM: Where'd you get Pilgrim from?
GRACE: We bought him in Kentucky.
Me and my mom took a trip down there
to see him.
- Well, that must've been special.
- Yeah.
Are you afraid of anything,
Tom Booker?
Oh, growing old.
Not being much use.
- Hey, Grace?
- Hmm?
What went on out there with Pilgrim?
See, Grace, I got a problem.
When I work with a horse,
I like to know its history.
Now, most of the times, a horse,
in its own way,
can pretty much tell you
the whole story.
But sometimes,
they get so messed up in their head
that you need more to go on.
Now, I don't know how you feel
about talking about it.
And if you don't feel like it, I understand.
But if I'm gonna figure out
what's going on in his head,
sure would help me
if I understood exactly
what happened that day.
You know, not today.
Whenever you feel like it.
I'll leave that up to you.
Uh-oh.
The answer's no.
Haven't even heard the question yet.
Now, the truth is,
you'd be doing me a real favor.
I got all these young colts
that need riding.
Rimrock, here, he's, you know,
he's feeling kind of left out.
Poor thing.
He'd be grateful.
And he'd take real good care with you.
(SIGHS)
Is this how you're gonna make me pay
my phone bill?
No. No, ma'am. That part's extra.
Oh!
- Brought you a hat.
- I have a hat.
I know. I've seen it.
ANNIE: I think my stirrups
are too long or...
TOM: No, they're fine.
Just relax your center.
ANNIE: Yeah.
TOM: Just sitting in a bucket.
No, it's all coming back, you know.
I mean, I'll be fine.
Okay, well, then I'll stop talking, then.
(LAUGHING) No, I didn't mean that. I...
You know, I've never ridden
western before, so...
TOM: Yeah, but he doesn't know that.
Just sit the horse.
- ANNIE: Yeah.
- You have a nice seat.
- You're doing fine.
- ANNIE: Thank you.
(NEIGHING)
(ANNIE LAUGHS)
- You look good. You feel okay?
- Yeah.
- Wanna pick it up a little? Okay.
TOM: Watch your reins.
Give him some room.
Let him do the work.
- Okay? You okay?
- Yeah.
Let's go.
(SQUEALING)
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
I envy your mother.
I do. (CHUCKLES)
It must be great
to be her age
and to be at that point in life
when you have no more guesswork.
No more impossible decisions to make.
And anyway, it doesn't matter,
because all the worries
and all the wrong turns
that you've made
are as valuable and
as cherished as the things
that you did right. I...
(SIGHING) Oh, it must be such a relief,
must be such peace in that.
I don't think
you have to wait to be her age
to find that kind of peace.
Yeah, but how would you know,
unless it was all behind you?
- Do you have it?
- Sometimes.
Not all the time, but sometimes.
When?
Waking up on the ranch in the morning,
knowing what I'm supposed to do
that day.
Knowing I'm home.
Hmm.
I wake up every morning,
and I don't know a damn thing. Was I...
(SIGHS)
Was I right to bring her here,
away from what's familiar,
away from her father,
her friends?
(LAUGHING) And the more I try and fix
things, the more everything falls apart.
Maybe you should let 'em fall.
No, I can't.
Why?
Do you think I was right to come?
I can't answer that, Annie.
Mmm.
Well, I'll know soon enough.
If I've made a mistake,
Grace'll let me know.
Well, she's a strong kid.
She gets that from somebody.
Mmm-hmm.
Thank you for all you're doing,
you and your family.
Letting us stay at the house.
It wasn't getting much use.
What was your wife like?
She had reddish hair.
Not quite. Almost.
Depended on the light.
She had green eyes.
And when she played, that was it.
Something just went right through me.
I had never heard music like that
played before.
And the way she looked
when she played it.
And then one day, she looked at me
that way, and that was it.
For both of us.
I knew she didn't wanna be
a rancher's wife,
but I wanted to give it a try.
I thought maybe she could give
music lessons to the kids in town,
at school maybe.
And that our kids would grow up
with my brother's kids
and play together.
But
she wasn't happy here.
"Too much space," she said.
So, why didn't you stay in Chicago?
Wasn't enough space.
It just wasn't meant to be.
But how did you know, for sure?
Knowing's the easy part.
Saying it out loud is the hard part.
Mmm. Seems so obvious now,
doesn't it?
"We weren't right for each other.
If only we knew then."
I didn't love her 'cause it was right.
I just loved her.
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
For whatever it's worth, Annie,
it took a lot of guts for you to come here.
Lift your leg.
(NEIGHING)
(MOOING)
Come on. Come on.
GRACE: Hey, Joe.
JOE: Hi.
GRACE: Would you let me
ride your horse?
Have you talked to Tom about it?
Course I have.
I don't know.
You sure Tom said it's all right?
You gonna give me a hand or what?
- You sure?
- Come on.
Okay.
Easy. Hold it.
(GRACE GRUNTING)
(HORSE SNORTING)
Whoa.
Got it. Got it.
I can do it.
Here.
-(NEIGHING)
-(GASPS)
Are you okay?
(LAUGHTER)
Hey!
You better not say anything!
(BLOWS RASPBERRY)
Thanks.
(DOOR CLOSES)
(SNICKERING)
I thought there were too many forks,
so I just...
Oh!
You look really pretty.
Thanks.
Does anybody
want something to drink?
(CRASHING)
ANNIE: Shit!
-(GIGGLING)
- Shh!
- Better go give your mom a hand.
- Oh, yeah.
- Everything under control here?
- Um... (CHUCKLES)
No, not really.
It's been so long since I've done this,
I've forgotten.
And I couldn't find
any Parmesan cheese.
Well, you got an easy crowd out there,
as long as it's hot.
Can I do anything?
Just make yourself comfortable.
I am comfortable.
Well, in that case,
you can bring in the pasta.
You missed a button.
Thank you.
Now, I'll have another round
of that spaghetti, if I may.
Of course.
FRANK: Thank you.
I like the sauce.
Maybe I could get the recipe.
It's from a jar.
(CHUCKLES)
(LAUGHS) Well, now, you know,
I used jar sauce once.
I don't believe it was near
as good as this. Isn't that right, Frank?
- No.
You know, I think you've gotta know
which brand to pick.
I sure would like the name of this one.
Mmm-hmm.
Annie, you've given me a rare night off.
Ooh, you're touching
on a sore subject here.
(CHUCKLING)
Diane has got these big dreams
in her head about getting away to...
Gosh, where was it?
- Greece? Morocco?
- Morocco.
FRANK: One of these places
where women wear masks,
and everybody's
running around in robes and...
DIANE: Well, we could use a vacation.
We're going to Branson
for the wedding.
JOE: No, it's not. You just had a turn.
BOY 1: You don't know
how to play the game.
- Hey.
- BOY 2: Yes, I do.
BOY 1: You do not.
Oh, Frank, you know,
Branson, Missouri
is not exactly Morocco.
FRANK: I got family there.
Got no family in Morocco, far as I know.
(CHUCKLES)
BOY 1: It's my turn!
BOY 2: You just had a turn!
- Was not.
- Was so!
Boys, settle down.
You're just showing off for...
- JOE: Shut up, stupid.
- You're the one who's stupid.
FRANK: Hey, boys.
BOY: Letting her go
and fall off your horse.
JOE: Oh, you little turd.
BOY: I saw 'em in the pasture.
Her trying to get on Gonzo.
FRANK: Hey, boys.
BOY: I saw.
- You turd!
- Don't.
- Joe!
-(BOYS GRUNTING)
Did you go riding?
BOY: No!
FRANK: Get up off the floor.
DIANE: Out you go.
FRANK: Get out of here.
DIANE: Right now. Out the door.
FRANK: Going home now.
JOE: I didn't start it!
TOM: Here. Here, here, Joe, Joe.
DIANE: Come on. Let's go. Right now.
Come on, let's go. Annie, I'm so sorry.
They're just tired.
We should just get them home to bed.
Say good night and thank you.
- Annie, dinner was delicious.
- BOYS: Good night and thank you.
- Thank you so much, Annie.
- Thank you.
- You say, "Thank you."
Joe, did Grace try to ride?
I expect you should talk
to Grace about that, ma'am.
If I did anything wrong, I'm sorry.
Mmm-hmm.
Don't let her turn you away.
(DOOR CLOSES)
(SIGHS)
(KNOCKING)
Grace, is everything all right?
- Did you try riding again?
- Yeah.
Does that mean I'm cured?
Nobody's trying to cure you.
Look, I just want to say I think
it's great that you're riding again.
And I think I know
why you needed to do it alone.
Yeah, you know everything.
(SIGHS)
Stop it.
Why won't you let me talk to you?
Why are you so angry with me?
Whatever I do, it's wrong.
Whatever I say, it's wrong.
Yeah? Well, now you know how it feels.
Look, I know
that I'm hard on you sometimes...
- Right!
- I'm sorry
if that makes you feel this way.
But if I push you, it's only because
I want...
Because if I'm your perfect daughter,
that makes you
the perfect mother, right?
I don't deserve that!
I don't push for me.
I push for you,
so that you don't spend half your life
not knowing where you belong.
Yeah? Well, you've done a great job.
Yeah.
(CRYING)
(SOBBING) Who wants me?
Who's ever gonna want me like this?
(SIGHS)
Oh...
Oh, God.
(SOBBING)
Who's ever gonna want me like this?
Nobody will.
I know it sometimes
doesn't seem this way,
but I do understand what you're feeling.
And when I was your age,
and when my dad died,
I felt like I'd lost everything,
and I'd be all alone.
(SNIFFLES)
And I've got you.
I used to pray every night
that you and Dad
would have another kid,
so I wouldn't have to be so special.
(BOTH CRYING)
I know.
And I know how hard it must be
to have lost your best friend
and have your body be different
from how you'd like it to be.
But one day,
somebody will look
at this extraordinary woman
that you're becoming.
All they'll see
is how much they love you.
That's all I see.
(MOOING IN DISTANCE)
(SNORTING GENTLY)
(PHONE RINGING)
- Yup?
- WOMAN ON PHONE: Hello.
This is AT&T Conference Service.
Is this Annie MacLean?
- Yes.
- I have a conference call
scheduled for you with
Mr. Gottschalk and Mr. Felton.
Mr. Felton. Hold on, please.
Okay, I'm ready.
(PILGRIM WHINNYING)
(SNORTING)
(PANTING)
I've been waiting for you to come back.
Are you hungry?
Judith was telling me about this boy.
I never even got his name.
(TEARFULLY) We were gonna go
around the railroad bridge.
We were laughing about something.
And I don't know what.
And her horse fell.
And Judith's foot
was caught in the stirrup.
And she was so scared.
And I saw this truck
coming around the turn.
And it was honking,
trying to get us to move.
And I tried to grab her reins in,
to get her horse to move out of the way.
And the truck started to skid.
And then there was no time
to do anything.
And it ran right into Judith.
And she just disappeared.
Then it came at Pilgrim and me.
And Pilgrim reared up at the truck.
And I fell off.
(SOBBING) But Judith.
Oh, God, Judith.
(CRYING) I'm so sorry, Judith.
Grace!
(SOBBING)
Now, I'm not gonna tell you
it's gonna stop feelin' this bad.
But I will tell you
you didn't do anything wrong.
The same thing
could've happened to me.
Or to Frank or to Joey.
And it doesn't make any sense to try
to figure out why these things happen.
There was a boy
from the Blackfeet Reservation.
He used to do some work
around here for a while. Sixteen.
Strong kid. Good kid. He and I
were really, really good friends.
One day, he went swimmin' and dove
head first into the lake
and right into a rock,
and it snapped his neck.
Paralyzed him.
And after the accident, I'd look
in on him from time to time.
But he wasn't there. It was like his mind,
his spirit, whatever you wanna call it,
just disappeared.
And the only thing left was just anger.
Sort of as if the boy I once knew
just went somewhere else.
I know where he goes.
I know you do.
Don't you disappear.
You do whatever you have to do
to hold on.
I'll tell you one more thing.
You know when Pilgrim
reared up against that truck?
You know what I think?
I think that damned horse loved you
so much, he was trying to protect you.
(CHUCKLES)
That's what I think.
(NEIGHING)
(MOOING)
(INAUDIBLE)
- ANNIE: And you take it like this.
- No, no, no, no.
Here, let me show you.
- Wanna see it again?
- Yup.
- Can you do it without smiling?
No, you can't. Not possible.
- I can feel the muscles...
- Try me.
- I can feel the muscles right...
-(LAUGHING)
(BOTH LAUGH)
Must be nice
to have a few days off work, huh?
Yeah. Yeah.
It's more than a few days, though.
I'm not an editor anymore.
First time I've said it out loud.
They fired you?
No, no, it's more like a...
Yeah, they fired me.
You don't seem too upset about it.
It's delayed shock. Or maybe not.
I'm sure I could talk my way
back in there
or get another magazine someplace.
But maybe I don't...
I'm just not sure I want to.
Well, I guess you don't have
to figure it out till you get home.
TOM: See, when you hit like a windmill,
know what I mean?
Like you're doing now.
But if you hit down,
like you're gonna hit a golf ball,
you come right down. Down into it.
Did you always know
this was the life you wanted?
(CHUCKLES)
Well, I was a rancher's daughter.
I guess it's not too far to go
to becoming a rancher's wife.
- Yeah.
- Frank's a good man.
- They don't come better.
I don't deny there are times I think
about all the things I won't have.
Maybe I'll get to see Morocco.
Probably not.
Did Tom have many girlfriends
after his divorce?
Hey, look, Annie, I'm not good
at this sort of talk.
Goes around and round somethin'
and never gets to it.
So, let's just say what it is.
Tom means so much to this family.
Don't you go lookin' here
for whatever it is you're lookin' for.
Don't make that man
go through somethin'
it took him so long to see his way
clear of in the first place.
I don't think Tom would do
anything he didn't wanna do.
Yeah.
He's a good man. Oh, he's got a gift.
Comes from heaven above, I swear.
But he's still just a man.
(GUITAR PLAYING)
HANK: (SINGING) Little raindrops
glisten on the painted Injun flowers
Honey-child,
the morning loves you true
The muddy road is brown and still
(INAUDIBLE)
As far as you can see
Honey-child, the noon-time...
(WATER RUNNING)
I couldn't...
There's something I need to know.
Are you sure?
Gotta get back.
(INAUDIBLE)
Dad?
Dad!
(SIGHS)
Diane. It's a pleasure.
Welcome, welcome.
- Diane.
- Hello. Frank.
ROBERT: Hello, Frank.
FRANK: This is our oldest boy, Joe.
- JOE: Good to meet you.
- Hi, Joe.
- And this is Mr. Booker.
- Tom.
ROBERT: Hi, Tom. It's a pleasure.
And I wanna thank you for the way
you took in my girls here.
I can already see a difference,
and I'm very grateful to you.
Dad? Dad, did you notice? No cane.
I know. It's amazing.
- Could we show him Pilgrim, Tom?
- You bet.
Let's go get your bags.
- FRANK: Need a hand, Annie?
- Yeah.
See you later.
So, at this point, I'm pretty sure I'm lost.
So, I stop by this general store
and ask if anyone knows
the Booker Ranch.
And this nice older gentleman
with a bandage on his head
-gave me directions.
-(ALL LAUGHING)
- Sweet Jesus, that's Henry Vanoker.
- Oh!
I'm surprised you didn't wind up
in Mexico.
(ALL LAUGH)
Well, once when Dad was in India,
he got lost way, way up
in these mountains.
And when he finally found his way back,
everyone said that
he had discovered a new route
and they redid all the maps.
Well, now, how'd you end up in India,
Robert?
This was right after college.
I was in the Peace Corps.
Well, that's where he met Mom.
Hey, tell 'em about when Mom
went looking for Tubab.
ROBERT: No, honey, it's...
GRACE: Dad. Come on, Dad.
Well, Mom was a writer,
and Dad knows the rest.
Come on.
She was a journalist
for an English periodical.
- What was it called?
- Cambridge Monthly.
Right. And she decided
to go to India all by herself,
without knowing a soul.
She had no place to stay,
but she was told to look up Tubab.
Tubab?
She comes to my door,
suitcase and typewriter,
and asks where Tubab is.
And I said, "Right here."
And she said, "You're Tubab?"
I said, "No, my name is Robert.
"Tubab means white man,
and yes, I am."
(ALL LAUGHING)
And that was how we met.
(INAUDIBLE)
Small bed.
Maybe I should sleep in the barn.
(CHUCKLES)
You're allergic to hay.
I apologize for the surprise,
but the days only opened yesterday
and I figured that...
You don't have to apologize.
You have every right to be here.
You were right to bring her here.
Well, there've been plenty of times
I wasn't so sure.
Must be tired, huh?
Yeah.
(SIGHS)
And then out here, in that farm,
I'll show you our bulls.
(CLANKING)
(TALKING INDISTINCTLY)
ROBERT: I can't believe
it's the same horse.
We still have a ways to go.
ROBERT: So, how much longer,
do you think?
Like I told your wife,
it's really up to Pilgrim.
ROBERT: Uh-huh.
(LIVELY COUNTRY MUSIC)
(INDISTINCT CHATTER)
(LAUGHTER)
(TALKING INDISTINCTLY)
-(MUSIC STOPS)
-(ALL CHEERING)
- Dad, you wanna come dance?
- Oh, no.
- Please, Dad?
- No.
(MELLOW TUNE)
(TALKING INDISTINCTLY)
(SINGING) Daylight has
found me here again
You can ask me anything
but where I've been
You should know the reason
why I called
I was looking for a soft place to fall
(LAUGHING)
Looking for a soft place
Nothing more than a small taste
Of a love that ended long ago
Looking for a place to hide
A warm bed on a cold night
I didn't mean to hurt you
No, no, no
Looking out your window at the dawn
Baby, when you wake up, I'll be gone
You're the one who taught me, after all
(INDISTINCT)
How to find a soft place to fall
-(MUSIC STOPS)
-(APPLAUSE)
(LIVELY MUSIC)
- The summer's really very brief.
- Oh, there's no summer at all.
Hey, Tom, after I doctor those cows,
you want me to put 'em
in the upper or lower pasture?
HANK: You get only
a certain number of days.
TOM: Upper, okay?
ROBERT: That's very short, very short.
You grew up here?
This is where you're from?
I wasn't born right here...
ROBERT: The winter is real long.
I asked Annie
and of course she didn't know.
What do you do?
HANK: Well, of course, that's the time
you gotta feed cattle
and hope
that the majority of 'em survive.
Is this how it's gonna be now? Huh?
You don't speak to me?
We don't speak to each other?
Well, I'm speaking to you now,
so say something.
- No.
- Why?
I can't get in the middle of this.
Well, I'm afraid
you are in the middle of this.
- He's a good man, Annie.
- I never said he wasn't.
I can't change the way I feel.
You gotta figure out what you want.
- Do you know what you want?
- I do know what I want.
And I'm tryin' real hard
not to get lost in this.
I never expected to feel this way again.
Annie, this is where I belong.
This is who I am. Is this what you want?
- Yeah.
- Are you sure?
Yeah.
Can you tell that to your family?
To Robert? To Grace?
If you had a chance to go home
and change things, would you?
You can't ask me that.
It's not that simple.
It is.
It's not fair.
No, it's not fair.
(PILGRIM SNORTS)
There's somethin' you gotta do
tomorrow, boy.
(SNORTING)
(GRUNTS SOFTLY)
(WHINNIES)
(NEIGHING)
It'll be okay, Grace.
Just hang on there a minute or two.
Tom'll get him all right.
-(NEIGHING)
-(GASPS)
(HOOVES THUDDING)
(SNORTING)
(PILGRIM PANTING)
GRACE: What're you doing?
TOM: Gonna have to do
something different, Grace.
It's not gonna hurt him, right?
TOM: Nothin' we've done has hurt him.
Grace, this is Pilgrim's chance.
And it's yours, too.
Okay.
Let him get everything ready.
(WHINNIES)
(PANTING)
(NEIGHING)
Come on.
(HOOVES THUDDING)
(PANTING)
That's enough! Stop!
(ROPE STRAINING)
(SOBBING)
(LOUD WHINNY)
(NEIGHING)
(STRAINING)
(GRUNTS WEAKLY)
(BREATHES DEEPLY)
(WHINNIES)
- Grace, this is where you come in.
- No.
Come on.
Okay, I want you to get down here,
Grace.
Grace, I want you to come over here
and sit next to me.
But why would he let me when...
Grace, look at him. Look at him.
He's okay. And you never
did anything to let him down.
- No. No, I can't.
- Grace, listen to me.
Grace, you've gotta do this.
Trust me just one more time.
Do what?
I want you to come over here
and sit next to me.
Start right here where the neck is
and the head,
and I want you to stroke him.
I want you to rub him
and feel him all over.
(WHINNIES SOFTLY)
That's it.
That's it. That's it. Go on ahead.
Grace, now we're gonna show Pilgrim
here how to help you get on him.
Because, you see, there's a point
where neither of you's
gonna need me anymore.
And we're there.
I'm not askin'.
Put your leg over the saddle here.
That a girl.
Now, we're gonna rock him up.
(GRUNTS)
(SIGHS)
(WHINNIES)
(LAUGHING)
(GRACE LAUGHING)
GRACE: Dad.
ROBERT: Honey, you were wonderful.
Hey, there, getting ready
to go home, are you?
Mmm-hmm. Is Tom around?
No, he went to Sheridan
to get some horses.
He left last night.
Um...
When's he coming back?
I don't rightly know.
Let me know when you need some help
loading Pilgrim, okay?
Yeah.
- What time's your flight?
-12: 15.
The Bookers
wanna leave for the airport by 9:30.
You sure
you wanna drive Pilgrim back?
Well, I already know the way and
it's not like I have a job to rush home to.
To tell you the truth,
I could use the time alone.
When are you planning to start?
Well, I guess I'll leave
when you and Grace go.
May I make a suggestion?
What?
Take your time.
What's the matter?
You look like there's something wrong.
I have to tell you something, Annie.
I stood there looking at that horse
and I swear I felt like
the same thing was happening to me.
And I have two choices.
I can either fight the way things are
or accept them.
See...
I always knew I loved you more.
Didn't bother me.
I guess I felt kind of lucky.
Little amazed that a woman like you
would wanna be with a man like me.
And I guess I thought
if I could do everything right,
if I was the best husband I could be,
the best father,
even being a good lawyer only mattered
because of what it meant for us.
If I could do all that,
it wouldn't make any difference
if we loved each other the same or not.
I didn't ask for more.
I told myself I didn't need any more.
But the truth is,
you don't know how you feel about me.
You don't know
if you want a life with me anymore.
And the truth is,
I don't want you to come home
until you do know.
One way or the other.
Okay?
- Thanks, Joe.
- Yup.
Bye, Annie. Good luck to you.
Thank you. And you, too.
All right, everybody in.
- Frank, we all set?
- FRANK: I believe so.
I can't believe he's not here
to say goodbye.
FRANK: Oh, he probably
got held up is all.
DIANE: No, sweetie, the truth is,
he's not real good at goodbyes.
You know, come to think of it,
not too good at hellos, either.
(LAUGHING) Frank.
- Ready?
- I'm just gonna...
Mmm!
- When will you be home?
- In a few days.
I'll miss you.
Well, if I get lost, you know
where to send the search party.
- Could be just about anywhere.
-(LAUGHING)
I'll call you, okay?
(ENGINE STARTS)
- Bye.
(DOOR CREAKS)
He going back inside the trailer
or running alongside?
I just wanted to be here when you left.
(SOBBING)
(CRYING) I don't want to leave you.
I don't want you to.
ANNIE: Just a few more days.
And then?
(ANNIE SIGHS)
(SNIFFLES)
Why did this happen?
I don't ask those questions, Annie.
- And I didn't ask to love you, but I do.
-(SOBBING) Oh...
TOM: I'll always have that with me.
Tom...
Can we have one last ride?
Hmm?
Yeah. I'll saddle them up.
(ENGINE STARTS)
(CHUCKLES)
(SNIFFLING)